# Talaash
A deeply disturbing fact about India’s missing children is that while on an average 174 children go missing every day, half of them remain untraceable. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report which was cited by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the Parliament (LS Q no. 3928, 20–03–2018), more than one lakh children (1,11,569 in actual numbers) were reported to have gone missing till 2016, and 55,625 of them remained untraceable till the end of the year.The statistics are however, indicative of the absence of a national Missing Children’s repository. “There are no budgets earmarked for tracking missing people,” said an official source.Taking references from everyday newspapers, we have seen the case of missing people increase at an alarming rate. On an average rate, 1000 people go missing everyday all around the world. And India is no stranger to such issues. Statistical analysis show that kids and old people are the victims of this issue. Missing cases may have various root causes including criminal reasons namely kidnapping to basic inability to recollect back one’s home. Although a lot of cases are reported to the police station, only a few cases are solved as its really difficult to track down manually.

Location based platform to find missing people application that uses a combination of Machine learning algorithms to track down missing people. The objective of this project is to help Police and higher authorities to track down missing people quickly. The usual process to track a person is using investigation which requires time and experience (to ask right questions). Most of the time, investigation method works pretty well but it is time consuming and can be unsuccessful if the person (missing) has been shifted/moved to different location (city/country). In such cases, the ideal approach is to go through CCTV footage and evidences. Again, this can be very time consuming and given the number of people that go missing everyday, it can be a challenge to keep up with it.Image recognition with the use of one-shot learning has become very powerful. This technology when put into good use can be extremely helpful.It can be even used in Hotels, Hospitals, etc. to find criminals in an instant. You can improve this project to a great extent by building API’s using Flask.The API will return 64 facial key points.
